Add Process for Connecting Amazon Route 53 and Astro (#1548)
astronomer/docs: astro/connect-aws.md

        {label: 'VPC peering', value: 'VPC peering'},
        {label: 'Transit Gateways', value: 'Transit Gateways'},
        {label: 'AWS PrivateLink', value: 'AWS PrivateLink'},

>         {label: 'Amazon Route 53', value: 'Amazon Route 53'},

Reviewer: IMO Route53 will help you LOCATE the service, but it isn't a connectivity option (i.e. you can't send bits over Route53).  It should be a sub-action of VPC peering and Transit Gateways - not sure how to present that info, but IMO putting it here is confusing.  Maybe we need a third section in this page instead? i.e. - Connection Options, DNS Recommendations, Authorization

Author: @dnarain-astro you make a valid point, but I'm not sure how best to organize the information. I need to think about it. Thanks for the feedback.

Reviewer 2: Agreed - there is also more than 1 way to skin this feral cat too! We should (eventually doc Route53 Endpoints too) https://github.com/astronomer/docs/issues/1590

Reviewer 2: Right now, this page has the sections `Connection options` and `Authorization options`. Should `Resolving resources` be a separate section?

Author: @stuart23 and @dnarain-astro I have added Resolving resources section and moved the Route 53 content. Take a look and let me know if this is a better solution.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Amazon Route 53">

Use Amazon Route 53 to allow Astro to access a private hosted zone.

#### Prerequisites

- An Amazon Route 53 Internet Resolver rule
- Permission to share resources using the AWS Resource Access Manager (RAM)

#### Step 1: Share the Amazon Route 53 Internet Resolver rule

To allow Astro to access a private hosted zone, you need to share your Amazon Route 53 Internet Resolver rule with your Astro AWS account.

1. In the Route 53 Dashboard,  click **Rules** below **Resolver** in the navigation menu.

2. Select the Internet Resolver rule and then click **Details**.

> 3. Click **Share**, enter `Astro` in the **Name** field, and then enter the remaining resource share details including the Astro AWS account ID. To get the Astro AWS account ID, go to the Cloud UI, click **Settings**, and then copy the value in the **ID** column for the Astro AWS account you want to share the Internet Resolver rule with.

Author: @stuart23 as discussed, it is not necesary to capitalize rule when using it with Resolver:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/205721359-56e73c7a-3814-464d-a4a8-97d7186a2329.png)

We don't use _Astro Cloud UI_. We use _Cloud UI_.

I have rewritten the procedure.

4. Click **Create resource share**.

#### Step 2: Contact Astronomer support for rule verification

To verify that the Amazon Route 53 Resolver rule was shared correctly, submit a request to [Astronomer support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support) with the following information:

- The Amazon Route 53 Resolver rule ID. To locate the Resolver rule ID, open the Route 53 Dashboard, and in the left menu click **Rules** below **Resolver**. Copy the value in the Resolver **ID** column.

> - The Astro AWS External ID for your organization. In the Cloud UI, click **Settings** and then copy the value in the **AWS External ID** field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

We have this available already - we do not need the customer to provide it back to us.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Amazon Route 53">

> Use Amazon Route 53 to allow Astro to access a private hosted zone.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use Amazon Route 53 to allow Astro to access a VPC through a [private hosted zone](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/hosted-zones-private.html).
```
Feel free to reword this, but based on the AWS docs it seems like private hosted zones are more of an implementation detail rather than the end goal of the setup.

#### Prerequisites

> - An Amazon Route 53 Resolver rule

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- An Amazon Route 53 forwarding rule to your VPC. See [Managing forwarding rules](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/resolver-rules-managing.html).
```
When I follow the AWS instructions for "Forwarding rules", I get to the same place as what's described here to be "Resolver rule". If these are the same thing, I'd opt to be consistent with how AWS refers to the rule.

Author: @jwitz Resolver rule is correct:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/205931901-de3d6a9a-3f12-4007-a170-b30290a40044.png)

Reviewer 3: Is this not referencing the same thing? https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/resolver-rules-managing.html

Reviewer 3: Resolver > Rule is a menu path, not the distinction for the rule itself. That appears to be "Forwarding rule"

Author: @jwitz Resolver rules is the correct naming convention. See:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/205934079-959619c1-3332-4f9f-9d94-d8617d60c464.png)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/205934405-c33c11f9-13d4-4c10-a0dd-2b796444a855.png)

Author: @jwitz the link has been added.

- Permission to share resources using the AWS Resource Access Manager (RAM)

> #### Step 1: Share the Amazon Route 53 Resolver rule

Reviewer 3: Remove step #s?

Author: @jwitz good catch. Done.

To allow Astro to access a private hosted zone, you need to share your Amazon Route 53 Resolver rule with your Astro AWS account.

> 1. In the Route 53 Dashboard,  click **Rules** below **Resolver** in the navigation menu.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the Route 53 Dashboard, click **Rules** below **Resolver** in the navigation menu.
```

> 2. Select a Resolver rule and then click **Details**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Select the forwarding rule and then click **Details**.
```

Author: @jwitz as mentioned previously, this edit is incorrect.

3. Click **Share** and enter `Astro` in the **Name** field.

> 4. In the **Resources - optional** section, select **Resolver Rules**  in the **Select resource type** list and then select a rule.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. In the **Resources - optional** section, select **Resolver Rules** in the **Select resource type** list and then select a rule.
```

Reviewer 3: Is this rule the same one as in Step 2?

Author: @jwitz it's an existing Resolver rule. See the prerequisites section. It can be _any_ Resolver rule that a user wants to share.

5. On the **Associate permissions** page, accept the default settings and then click **Next**.

> 6. On the **Grant access to principals** page, select **Allow sharing only within your organization**, and then enter your Astro AWS account ID for your organization in the **Enter an AWS account ID** field. To get the Astro AWS account ID, go to the Cloud UI, click **Settings**, and then copy the value in the **ID** column for the Astro AWS account you want to share the Internet Resolver rule with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. On the **Grant access to principals** page, select **Allow sharing only within your organization**, and then enter your Astro AWS account ID for your organization in the **Enter an AWS account ID** field. To get the Astro AWS account ID, go to the Cloud UI, click **Settings**, and then copy the value in the **ID** column for the Astro AWS account you want to share the Resolver rule with.
```

7. Click **Create resource share**.

#### Step 2: Contact Astronomer support for rule verification

To verify that the Amazon Route 53 Resolver rule was shared correctly, submit a request to [Astronomer support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support) with the following information:

- The Amazon Route 53 Resolver rule ID. To locate the Resolver rule ID, open the Route 53 Dashboard, and in the left menu click **Rules** below **Resolver**. Copy the value in the Resolver **ID** column.

#### Step 3: Confirm connectivity

> When Astronomer support confirms that the Amazon Route 53 Resolver rule was successfully associated with the Astro VPC, confirm Astro can resolve hostnames from the private hosted zone.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When Astronomer support confirms that the Amazon Route 53 forwarding rule was successfully associated with the Astro VPC, confirm Astro can resolve hostnames from the private hosted zone.
```

Author: @jwitz as discussed previously, this edit is incorrect.

1. Open Airflow and select **Admin** > **Connections**.

> 2. Select the Amazon Route 53 connection and click **Edit record**.

Reviewer 3: AFAIK there is no Route 53 connection type in Airflow. What happens is you need to configure a default [AWS connection](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-amazon/stable/connections/aws.html) to the VPC/ resource connected to the forwarding rule, and Route 53 handles that connection on the backend. Is this right @stuart23 ?

If so, we should instruct users to create the Airflow connection to their resource, and possibly provide guidance on how that connection should look.

Author: @jwitz this was discussed. Here is the thread:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/205935202-60c41263-3d6b-4802-84db-37e8ad987e37.png)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/205935261-6d560709-fbbd-4ded-9962-fc9992f860bd.png)

My understanding (perhaps incorrect) was that the connection would appear in Airflow after Astronomer Support completed the configuration. @stuart23 and @afastronomer reviewed and approved the existing content. I'll wait for Stu's response.

Reviewer 3: "When customer adds connection" to me means that the user has to create the AWS connection first and test it before they can see that the connection is successful, which in other words is seeing the name resolving in action. I don't think Astronomer is going into people's Airflow UIs and configuring connections for them.

Reviewer 2: As I understand, the connection can be anything that points towards a resource that is resolved by the shared rule. I don't know if we need to document exactly how to do this, as the type of connection (db, endpoint, ?) could really be anything.

Author: @stuart23 thanks for the feedback. Would it be sufficient to say: In Airflow, create a connection to a resource that is resolved by the shared rule. See [Managing Connections](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html).

My preference is always to provide explicit instructions, but it appears that this isn't possible here.

Reviewer 2: Sounds good to me Rob. You can then tell them to test the connection using the connection testing feature (although I have had very limited success with this feature :-/)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Amazon Route 53">

Use Amazon Route 53 to allow Astro to access a VPC through a .

> 

Reviewer: Incomplete sentence FYI.  What i would recommend here is "Use Route53 Resolver rules to allow Astro to resolve DNS queries for resources running in other VPCs or on-premises"

Author: @dnarain-astro thanks for the recommendation. I have updated the introductory statement.

#### Prerequisites

- An Amazon Route 53 Resolver rule. See [Managing forwarding rules](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/resolver-rules-managing.html).
- Permission to share resources using the AWS Resource Access Manager (RAM)

#### Share the Amazon Route 53 Resolver rule

To allow Astro to access a private hosted zone, you need to share your Amazon Route 53 Resolver rule with your Astro AWS account.

1. In the Route 53 Dashboard, click **Rules** below **Resolver** in the navigation menu.

2. Select a Resolver rule and then click **Details**.

3. Click **Share** and enter `Astro` in the **Name** field.

> 4. In the **Resources - optional** section, select **Resolver Rules**  in the **Select resource type** list and then select a rule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. In the **Resources - optional** section, select **Resolver Rules**  in the **Select resource type** list and then select one or more rules.
```

Want to. make it clear that multiple rules can be shared at once

5. On the **Associate permissions** page, accept the default settings and then click **Next**.

6. On the **Grant access to principals** page, select **Allow sharing only within your organization**, and then enter your Astro AWS account ID for your organization in the **Enter an AWS account ID** field. To get the Astro AWS account ID, go to the Cloud UI, click **Settings**, and then copy the value in the **ID** column for the Astro AWS account you want to share the Resolver rule with.

7. Click **Create resource share**.

#### Contact Astronomer support for rule verification

To verify that the Amazon Route 53 Resolver rule was shared correctly, submit a request to [Astronomer support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support) with the following information:

- The Amazon Route 53 Resolver rule ID. To locate the Resolver rule ID, open the Route 53 Dashboard, and in the left menu click **Rules** below **Resolver**. Copy the value in the Resolver **ID** column.

> #### Create the connection and confirm connectivity

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Create a connection to confirm connectivity (optional)
```

This is optional and just used to confirm that the domain name is being resolved correctly.

When Astronomer support confirms that the Amazon Route 53 Resolver rule was successfully associated with the Astro VPC, create the Airflow connection confirm Astro can resolve hostnames from the private hosted zone.

1. Open Airflow and select **Admin** > **Connections**.

2. Click **Add a new record**.

> 3. Enter the connection ID of the Resolver rule you shared in the **Connection Id** field.

Reviewer 3: Connection ID is not related to this setup. A [Connection ID](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html#storing-connections-in-environment-variables) is simply the name you give to the connection so you can call it in your Airflow DAG.

To use the Route 53 setup with an AWS connection, I think you would need to specify [`endpoint_url`](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-amazon/stable/connections/aws.html#configuring-the-connection) with the domain you configured in the forwarding rule. But it might just be sufficient to tell users to create a new AWS connection to test it as they see fit.

Reviewer 3: cc @afastronomer , which fields must the user configure in the AWS connection to use the Route 53 setup? Is it just `endpoint_url` or are their keyword arguments you must also add?

> 3. Enter a name for the connection in the **Connection Id** field. The naming convention is `AIRFLOW_CONN_{CONN_ID}`, all uppercase with single underscores surrounding `CONN`. For example, `AIRFLOW_CONN_MY_AWS_DB`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Enter a name for the connection in the **Connection Id** field, such as `aws_default`.
```
Per the Airflow docs, this is the naming convention for storing connections in environment variables, not in the UI itself. See https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections#airflow-connection-basics and https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html#json-format-example

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Resolving resources

> Securely connect your Astro data plane to resources running in other VPCs or on-premises.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Securely connect your Astro data plane to resources running in other VPCs or on-premises through a resolving service.
```
This sentence would otherwise also apply to the original VPC peering setup.
